Enter an expression to calculate the answer.

Operators are represented by a symbol and perform an operation on the numbers around them. Binary operators have 2 numbers (1 either side of the symbol), whereas unary operators have 1 number (either left or right of the symbol). Functions are represented by a word followed by brackets containing all operands (values needed for the function) separated by commas. Constants are a word representing a number very accurately. Simply enter the word and it will convert it to the number.

Functions and constants are always executed first and then operators are executed using BODMAS - brackets, other (exponents and unary operators), division and multiplication, addition and subtraction.

Binary Operators:
Addition: use '+' between 2 numbers to find the first add the second.
Subtraction: use '-' between 2 numbers to find the first subtract the second.
Multiplication: use '*' between 2 numbers to find the first multiplied by the second.
Division (true): use '/' between 2 numbers to find the first divided by the second.
Division (floor): use '\' between 2 numbers to find the first divided by the second and rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Mod: use '%' between 2 numbers to find the remainder after the first is divided by the second.
Exponentiation: use '^' between 2 numbers to find the first to the power of the second.
Root: use '¬' to find the first th root of the second - '2¬a' is the square root of 'a', '3¬a' is the cube root of 'a', etc.
Permutations: use 'P' to find the number of ways there are to organise the second number of items into the first number of places including all possible orders.
Combinations: use 'C' to find the number of ways there are to organise the second number of items into the first number of places only counting 1 possible order.

Unary Operators:
Positive: use '+' before a number to find the positive of it.
Negative: use '-' before a number to find the negative of it.
Factorial: use '!' after a positive whole number to find the product of all positive whole numbers less than or equal to it.

Functions:
Natural log: use 'ln' with 1 operand to find the natural logarithm of it.
Logarithm: use 'log' with 2 operands to find the logarithm of the first to the second base.
Absolute value: use 'abs' with 1 operand to find the absolute value of it which is always positive.
Lowest common multiple: use 'lcm' with 2 operands to find the lowest common multiple of them.
Highest common factor: use 'hcf' with 2 operands to find the highest common factor of them.
Random number generator: use 'rand' with 2 operands to find a random integer between them, inclusive.
Quadratic equation solver: use 'quadp' with 3 operands (a, b and c) to find the positive square root answer to the quadratic equation 'ax^2 + bx + c = 0' or use 'quadn' to find the negative square root answer of the same equation.
Sine: use 'sin' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the ratio between the opposite side and hypotenuse of its triangle.
Cosine: use 'cos' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the ratio between the adjacent side and hypotenuse of its triangle.
Tangent: use 'tan' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the radio between the opposite and adjacent sides of its triangle.
Inverse sine: use 'arsin' with 1 operand between -1 and 1 inclusive to find the angle it makes with the opposite side and hypotenuse of its triangle.
Inverse cosine: use 'arcos' with 1 operand between -1 and 1 inclusive to find the angle it makes with the adjacent side and hypotenuse of its triangle.
Inverse tangent: use 'artan' with 1 operand to find the angle it makes with the opposite and adjacent sides of its triangle.
Hyperbolic sine: use 'sinh' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the ratio between the opposite side and hypotenuse of its hyperbola.
Hyperbolic cosine: use 'cosh' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the ratio between the adjacent side and hypotenuse of its hyperbola.
Hyperbolic tangent: use 'tanh' with 1 operand (an angle) to find the ratio between the opposite and adjacent sides of its hyperbola.
Inverse hyperbolic sine: use 'arsinh' with 1 operand to find the angle it makes with the opposite side and hypotenuse of its hyperbola.
Inverse hyperbolic cosine: use 'arcosh' with 1 operand at least 1 to find the angle it makes with the adjacent side and hypotenuse of its hyperbola.
Inverse hyperbolic tangent: use 'artanh' with 1 operand between -1 and 1 inclusive to find the angle it makes with the opposite and adjacent sides of its hyperbola.

Constants:
pi: use 'pi' to get the ratio between a circle's circumference and its diameter. Value = 3.1415...
tau: use 'tau' to get 2 lots of pi - the number of radians in 360 degrees. Value = 6.2831...
e: use 'e' to get Euler's number. Value = 2.7182...
g: use 'g' to get the acceleration due to gravity close to the Earth's surface. Value = 9.80665
phi: use 'phi' to get the golden ratio found in many places in nature. Value = 1.6180...